//I need everyone to
roll initiative. //I rolled a natural one.


-Support for everyone inputting their initiative in order? Or perhaps the DM having their own mode for keeping track of combat? 


MATT: All right, so. 20 to 15?

LAURA: 21.

MATT: All right.

LAURA: Oh, wait, 22.

MATT: Nice. 15 to ten?

TALIESIN: Ten.

SAM: Ten.

TRAVIS: 12.

ASHLEY: 13.

LIAM: 11.

MATT: So 13 and then ten and ten? Sorry, 12. So
Yasha got 13, then we have Fjord. And then 11. And

then we have Nott at ten. And what’d you get?

MARISHA: Five. Rolled terribly.

MATT: There we go. Okay, so. Top of the round, as
this creature turns and glares about in the area,

this swollen form over here to the side, that’s
what remains of the old man who had stood up in

the center of the chamber. Jester, you’re up
first.

LAURA: Okay. Well, I’m just going to go for it,
all right? I’m going to cast Guiding Bolt on the

monster that just appeared.

MATT: Okay, as it turns towards you. It’s a saving
throw, correct?

LAURA: Let’s find out. You make a ranged spell
attack.

MATT: Go ahead and roll on that.

LAURA: Okay, okay.

SAM: Magic, you’re using magic.

LAURA: Well, it’s cocked. It was 20 and then it
rolled.

SAM: You said cocked.

LIAM: You’re a cock.

LAURA: That’s 11 plus– what do I add to my–
Guiding Bolt, plus five. So 16.

MATT: 16 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Yay. 4d6.

MATT: Yasha, you’re almost on deck.

LAURA: Ten, 16, 18, and then any attacks in the
future– the next attack has advantage.

MATT: How much damage was that? 2d6, 18?

SAM: 4d6, you said.

LAURA: Yeah, it was 4d6 radiant damage. So yeah,
it was 18. And then I’m going to run the opposite

direction away from him, but I’m going to keep my
duplicate up there.

MATT: Okay, which, for your duplicate, I should
go ahead and grab something.

TALIESIN: Oh, you’ve got toys.

LAURA: That backpack’s almost as big as my dice
bag.

MATT: Almost. I was like, that’s right, you can do
this, so I need to pull out– we’ll say for the

purposes of this, you’re– we’ll put you– this
will be your duplicate, wherever you want to move

it from where you are, so she moves there.

LAURA: So she’s going to stay here. I can’t reach
that far, but. Oh, shit, sorry.

MATT: Just let me know where. There?

LAURA: Sorry, I didn’t realize it was–

MATT: You can get there.

LAURA: Okay, sounds good.

MATT: Okay, so that ends your turn. At the top of
your turn, this creature closest to one of the

people nearby screaming, this young woman who’s
trying to back away, it just turns toward her and

grabs and tries to tear into her with two strikes.
The first one, that is actually going to miss. She

ducks out of the way and begins crawling across
the ground as it goes for a second attack. That,

however, does hit, it’s a 16. That’ll do it. So
with eight points of bludgeoning damage, it

reaches down and slams its fist into her chest,
and as it does, she gives out this horrible yelp

as it rips into her and begins gnawing into her
flesh and pulls away with a mouthful of it and

stands up, its eyes scanning the room for the next
possible victim. It’s going to begin to stalk

forward, coming up to that guy. All right, Yasha,
your turn.

ASHLEY: Okay. How close am I to them– I want to
give them their weapons.

MATT: You’re right there. You’d have to– You’re
pretty close to everybody. You could distribute–

you could use your action to toss the weapons out
to everybody this turn, I’ll say.

ASHLEY: Okay. I’ll pass my weapons out this turn.

MATT: Okay, so you’ll spend your action throwing
them out to the individuals. So your shortsword

and crossbow clatter to the ground, and you
quickly scramble to grab them. Caleb’s dagger

falls at his foot. Your staff gets tossed quickly
from behind you. Your falchion meets your arm.

SAM and MARISHA: Falchion.

MATT: All right. That ends Yasha’s turn. Fjord,
you’re up.

TRAVIS: Can I run up with the falchion within
melee?

MATT: You actually rush through Jester’s form. You
watch the image dissipate as you charge through it

and meet up, face-to-face, with this large,
gnarled, horrible-looking creature. What are you doing?

TRAVIS: Ripping the falchion, can I swing it into
the creature?

MATT: You may.

LAURA: And you get advantage.

TRAVIS: I do? Thank god, because that was a one.
18.

MATT: 18 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Nice.

SAM: It’s a real fight!

MATT: Yeah.

TRAVIS: 11.

SAM: We’ve got like a dozen hit points, we’ll be
okay.

MATT: All righty. That ends your turn? All right,
you’re done. That brings us to Caleb.

LIAM: I would like to use my movement to push as
far into the crowd as I can.

MATT: Okay, going through the crowd is–

LIAM: Half-movement? That’s fine, sure. I just
want people in front of me.

MATT: Push through to about there. You end up
pushing a kid out of the way.

LIAM: That’s great. That’s exactly fine with me
and I will pull out the diamond and cast Chromatic

Orb, and I will send a ball of cold at the
creature that Fee-ord– Fjord–

MATT: All right, go ahead and make a spell
attack.

LIAM: Yes, here it comes.

SAM: Watch out for Fee-ord.

(laughter)

LIAM: My goodness. That is a 17.

MATT: 17 hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

LAURA: Isn’t Chromatic Orb like a really strong
spell?

LIAM: No.

MATT: There’s Prismatic Spray. Chromatic is the
starter version.

LIAM: That is nine.

ALL: Nein!

MATT: (German accent) All right, very well done,
Caleb.

LIAM: (thicker German accent) Now is the part
where we dance.

MATT: So as you push the child out of the way,
turn, putting your pocketed diamond out in front

of you, you focus and you watch as this beam of
light blue energy streaks past, just barely

coasting between a few heads. It slams into this
creature, as crystals form where the

wound and impact was. It cracks back into place
where it was. End of your turn? All right. Nott,

you’re up.

SAM: Okay. Having seen the beautiful dwarven–
girl, was it? Who sang and soothed a monster

earlier in the show, I’m going to attempt to sing
and soothe this monster. So I step forward and I

open my mouth, and I sing, (singing badly) And I
will always soothe you!

LAURA: Can I shoot an arrow at Nott?

LIAM: He’s killing the memory of Scanlan.

MARISHA: I know, can’t let that go.

MATT: Make a performance check.

SAM: Performance check. Ooh, it’s really good. 18,
minus three, so that’s 15.

MATT: Okay. As you’re singing out this discordant
sound, folks nearby are covering their ears and

glancing back and looking in surprise at this
strange creature giving off this–

SAM: Does it die?

MATT: No. However, it now, after taking a few hits
nearby, its red eyes– or at least one red eye

slips over to look in your direction. That’s as
much of an effect.

SAM: Fuck!

(laughter)

MATT: Do you want to move, or are you going to
stay there?

SAM: Yes, I’m going to move, and I’m going to dash
behind somebody in the crowd, some weak-looking

individual.

MATT: Okay. You can get behind there. Okay. All
right, that ends your turn?

LIAM: That’s our M.O., baby!

MATT: Beau, you’re up.

MARISHA: Oh shit, okay. To RP my tragic one on the
first fucking battle a little bit, I’ll turn to

everybody and go, guys, no, it’s part of the show.
Molly said that people die. She was just a claque.

Okay. And then I run and I’m going to tackle the
zombie guy. Can I see if I can grapple him?

MATT: You can certainly, on the first attack. Go
for it. Make an athletics check.

MARISHA: Just straight athletics. Oh god. Do I
keep that? It’s not good.

(laughter)

MARISHA: Seven.

MATT: 17. You attempt with your first strike, and
the creature just breaks away. Its strength is far

more than you imagined it would be from what was
originally an elderly-looking frame.

MARISHA: I go, oh, fuck that. I don’t know if
that’s true, and I’m going to do a flurry of blows

and do two, pop-pop. That’s unarmed, right?
Pop-pop.

MATT: That is correct.

MARISHA: I do two, right?

MATT: Yes, if you’re using your ki point to do
that, yes.

MARISHA: Yes, I am. So first one, it’s plus six?
Okay. First one is 19. No, 20. First one is 20

total, and then the second one is 15 total.

MATT: Both hit. Roll damage for each.

MARISHA: Okay. Not great.

SAM: What are those dice?

MARISHA: They’re d4s, they’re just fancy d4s.
Yeah. That is four, eight, 11 points of damage.

MATT: Between both? Great. So after the grapple
fails and it pushes you away, you go ahead and

pull back and then leap, kick it in the chest and
then uppercut it in the chin.

MARISHA: Yeah, that’s cool.

MATT: Looks back towards you. So that would be
putting you up base-to-base with it there. All

righty. Ending your turn? Okay, at that point, the
crowd is now screaming and begins to swell and

push in this direction. These folks all begin to
run back and around this way. This crowd begins to

push, the guards are trying to push forward, and they
can only get a little ways forward to there and

there. Everyone just shifts out this direction.

LAURA: God, somebody’s going to get trampled.

SAM: It’s really a hazard. They should have had
more exits.

LAURA: I mean, it’s a fire hazard, for sure.

MATT: Caleb and Nott, I need you both to make
dexterity saving throws.

SAM: 15.

LIAM: Oh, pretty good. That is 17 for me.

MATT: All right. You both manage to just bob and
weave through the crowd to prevent being trampled

and backing away from the chaos as people are
pushing through. The entrance is too small for

everyone to leave, and there’s now a giant
bottleneck that’s beginning to push up as people

are now screaming and trying to get out. They’re
crying, and the chaos is just swelling into this

absolute cacophony. As soon as that finishes, the
devil-toad carrying the dwarven girl, who was

given a decree, exits out back with her to get her
to safety. These two begin to slowly back away,

seeing that things seem to be handled? And the
guards making their way in are looking scared at

each other, not really knowing what to make of the
current chaos. At that point, you watch as the

woman whose chest was torn into by this creature
suddenly–

(groaning)

MATT: –snaps up into place.

LAURA: Oh, shit. Okay, we have to keep them from
being dead.

MATT: Top of the round. Jester, you’re up.

LAURA: Oh, god.

MATT: What was your initiative again?

TALIESIN: Ten.

MATT: Ten, oh, shit. That’s right, you’re with
Nott, that’s what happened. So Molly, you go ahead

and go for your turn as well. My apologies.

TALIESIN: I’m going to yell to the back, open the
tent wide! And I’m going to pull– how far away am I?

MATT: You’re right there. You’re in the middle of
the crowd as it’s swarming around you and Yasha.

TALIESIN: (sighs) I’m going to run around and see
if I can flank that creature, if I can move

towards flanking that creature with the other
two.

MATT: You can’t really flank it, but you can get
next to it.

TALIESIN: All right. Can I get close enough to
take a shot?

MATT: You can, yeah.

TRAVIS: Take a shot?

SAM: You have guns?

TALIESIN: Well, old habit.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: As a bonus, I’m flipping it out, and I’m
going to activate the first sword.

MATT: Okay, so you watch as Molly pulls the
scimitar out, and as he unsheathes it, draws it

across the side of his exposed chest, causing a
little bit of blood to spill out, and as it does,

he pulls the blade out, and you watch as the edge,
suddenly, ice crystals begin to build on the outside

of the blade.

TALIESIN: And I’m taking a shot at the creature.

SAM: Taking a shot?

TALIESIN: Taking a slice.

LAURA: Taking a stab.

SAM: But with bullets.

TALIESIN: That’s 21 to hit.

MATT: That hits.

TALIESIN: That’s not bad. That’s eight points of
damage and one point of ice damage.

MATT: Okay, so nine points of damage on the first
strike.

TALIESIN: No, that was my bonus.

MATT: That was your bonus, that’s all you’ve got.
Okay. So one strike, you cut across, and you watch

as you cut this wide wound open, exposing the
fleshy organs’ interior, but they’re frozen where

the wound cut through, and it’s still holding it
together. It’s looking like it’s starting to hurt

a bit and fall apart slightly.

SAM: This is the bigger monster?

MARISHA: So it’s the one I’m fighting?

MATT: Yes. So that ends your turn, Molly? Brings
us to the top. So Jester, sorry, back to you.

LAURA: Oh, now I’m worried. I’m worried about
the undead. I don’t know. Well, I don’t think I

would know this, so it’s okay. I’m going to say to
the air and say, dude, are you here, because this

is like the coolest shit we’ve ever seen! And then I’m
going to cast Toll the Dead on the first zombie

creature guy. And there’s a bell that tolls.

MATT: Toll the Dead.

MARISHA: Oh, that’s fucking rad, dude.

LAURA: He has to make a wisdom saving throw or
take 1d12 necrotic damage.

MATT: Natural one. Go ahead and roll a d12.

LAURA: Oh, three. That’s lame.

MATT: Three points of necrotic damage. So as this
deep temple bell rings out in the air above, you

watch as this creature who has turned and is
beginning to just whale upon the surrounding

allies that are curling at its sides, it seems to
retract from the sound and cover its ears briefly

before angrily lashing out.

LAURA: And I made that sound like it was coming
from my duplicate, and my duplicate’s going to run

back a little bit and stand next to the pole.
Yeah.

MATT: Cool. Is that your turn? All right. The
standing creature that’s now been sliced,

bludgeoned, and wounded by all three of you, is
going to go ahead and make two strikes at– roll

randomly to see who it goes for. That’s going to
be at Beauregard. It swings at you twice, both

with its giant massive clawed fists, just striking
out towards you. First one is 17 to hit?

MARISHA: My armor class is 17.

MATT: Nine points of bludgeoning damage as the
first one just slams you in the chest. You feel

the wind knocked out of you for a brief second.
The second swing’s going to come at you. That’s

going to be a 20 to hit.

MARISHA: Yup, yup, that hits.

TRAVIS: This thing’s swinging hard. Holy shit.

MATT: And that’s going to be six points of
bludgeoning damage to you.

LIAM: What are you at, girl?

MARISHA: Don’t worry about it. I’m bad.

MATT: It slams into you once with the fist, and
the other one grabs into your stomach, abdomen

region, and the claws dig in, and its jaw unhinges
and drops like a snake’s.

MARISHA: I turn to Fjord and I go, I’m not a
claque, this show’s bullshit.

MATT: The other one is going to rush over towards
you, Mollymauk, as you’re the closest one to it,

and is going to take one swing at you.

TALIESIN: Yeah, no. I’m going to use Blood
Maladict.

MATT: Okay, so you’re using a reaction? You don’t
have to roll anything for it. He just has

disadvantage on the strike.

TALIESIN: Oh, that’s right, because I’m not
doubling it up.

MATT: That’ll do it. He rolled a 16 and then a
four. So as it swings towards you, you watch as

suddenly the reddish burning eyes of the second
creature go black, and it goes way too wide and

misses you. You easily duck out of the way of its
first strike. As it runs past, towards you this

way, you get an attack of opportunity as it leaves
your attack range to attempt to swing around Molly

for a second strike. Go for it.

TRAVIS: That is 16.

MATT: 16 hits! Go ahead and roll damage.

TRAVIS: Nice. That is 12 points of damage.

MATT: With this brief opening as it rushes past
Mollymauk, after its eyes go black, you watch as

it stumbles, its vision ruined. With that moment,
you swing out with your– falchion, thank you.

Yeah, it’s falchion, that’s right– and strike
across the back of its shoulder. You see what once

was this beautiful young woman is now this
swollen, horrible undead form lumbering past, and

you cut a heavy chunk of meat off of its shoulder.
It curves around and makes a second strike at you,

Mollymauk. This one without advantage. That’s a
natural 19. Yeah, that’s a 24 to hit. All right.

You take eight points of bludgeoning damage, as
the first one, you manage to move out of the way,

and as you spin your scimitar around, you glance
over just in time to have it clock you right

across the jaw. Your vision blurs and doubles for
a second. That’s going to end their turn. Yasha,

you’re up.

SAM: All right, Yasha!

ASHLEY: Can I get to the big beast? Beast number
one? Okay, so this is the first time I’ve done

this, so hopefully I won’t do this wrong.
I would like to rage.

(cheering)

ASHLEY: I’m going to workshop it, I’ll make
something later. For now, it’s a placeholder.

Okay, I would like to rage, and reckless attack?

MATT: Yeah, you can reckless attack any of your
attacks.

SAM: Is that something you can do right away? That
sounds like a later thing.

ASHLEY: Is that something you do later? Okay. I
didn’t get a practice shot at this. Okay. So I

just roll.

MATT: You roll at advantage.

ASHLEY: I don’t know how to play D&D anymore! I
just forgot how to do it.

LAURA: Okay, but roll again, you have advantage.

ASHLEY: Oh, reckless. Okay. 17?

MATT: That hits. Go ahead and roll damage.

ASHLEY: I take out my beautiful greatsword.

MATT: Freshly purchased. In fact, this is the
first time it’s seen battle.

ASHLEY: It is the first time it’s seen battle.

SAM: Google reported a weird influx of 'falchion’
searches.

(laughter)

ASHLEY: 13.

MATT: On the one that’s already been damaged?

ASHLEY: Yeah. The first guy.

MATT: Yeah, all right.

ASHLEY: Get the fuck out of my tent!

(laughter)

MATT: Yeah, no, it does not make the save– it
rolled– yeah. So as you come down with your blade

and carve through its body, you watch as it curls
back, trying to reform and hold itself, but your

blow was too strong, and its zombie-ish form
cannot maintain a cohesive hold on its form, and

you watch as it just crumbles to the ground, no
longer moving.

(cheering)

SAM: Yasha!

ASHLEY: Okay, okay, okay.

MATT: Okay, that ends your turn. As you’re there,
growling animalistically towards the creature.

ASHLEY: Ooh, that feels fun.

MATT: You have about five more feet of movement,
if you wanted to move.

ASHLEY: Okay, so I’m going to go a little bit
closer to– wait, how many more are left? Just

the other one? Yeah, so I’ll get ready for the
other one. So a little bit closer to it.

MATT: All right. That ends your turn, Yasha.
Fjord, you’re up.

TRAVIS: Shit. I’ll turn and head towards
other tree-zombie fuck. I would like to use my

bonus action to cast Hex on it.

MATT: Okay. So you watch as Fjord lumbers towards
it, his large, armored half-orc form holding the

blade in his hand. Puts his hand out, and the
shadows suddenly swirl and gather around this

zombified woman’s form and cling to it, like it’s
holding it in place. So with it now hexed, what

would you like to do?

TRAVIS: I would like to use my falchion to open it
the fuck up.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: 21.

MATT: That definitely hits. Go ahead and roll
damage.

TRAVIS: That’s 12 points of damage, plus five
points of necrotic damage.

MATT: 17 points of damage.

LIAM: Level two, that’s major.

MATT: So, as you rush up, after the shadows gather
around it, it looks up to you, and it pulls back,

ready to strike, and you just shake your head, and
one large swipe of your falchion carves this giant

mark across its chest. Where the cloth and flesh
opens, you can see this blackened interior, where

the muscles are trying to move, almost like worms,
to regather and tighen. All right, that ends your

turn. That brings us to Caleb.

LIAM: All right, I know that it’s restricted
movement, but I will push this way through the

crowd so that I have a clearer shot, as far as I
can, and then I will re-up with Chromatic Orb.

MATT: You can push right about there. You just
barely pull through the crowd to the front to get

a clear–

LAURA: Hi, Caleb.

LIAM: I certainly don’t want to do that. I want to
stay in the crowd, behind people, and I will do

Chromatic Orb again, but this time, I’m going to set it
to acid, so see if it hit. Oh, that’s not good,

it’s 11.

MATT: 11 unfortunately does not hit. So as you
pull it out a second time, you’re pushing through

the crowd and you pull up your diamond, and right
as you’re about to release the spell, one of the

people in the crowd slams into you with her
shoulder and you get jarred off to the side. The

acid bolt of the Chromatic Orb flies off and
actually burns a hole through the distant tent and

then vanishes into the night sky.

LIAM: Hope that didn’t hit anyone.

MATT: All right, that ends your turn, Caleb. Nott,
you’re up.

SAM: Do I have eyes on the biggie? Is Fjord right
next to her?

MATT: Fjord and Mollymauk are both next to it,
yes.

SAM: All right. I’m going to peek out behind
whatever patron I’m next to, take out my little

crossbow and just shoot a little shot.

MATT: All right, go for it.

TRAVIS: Is it made of piano wire?

(laughter)

SAM: 16.

MATT: 16 hits.

LAURA: I like how every time you roll it comes
out.

SAM: It does. This is very bouncy. Okay, so 1d6,
that’s a four, plus four is eight, plus I get

sneak attack damage, 'cause I’m a rogue. Another
four, so that’s 12. Is the creature bigger than

me? I will use Fury of the Small.

(cheering)

SAM: To inflict another two points of damage, so
that’s 14 points of damage.

MATT: Okay. As you pull around the corner and
release your one crossbow bolt, it hits the bottom

of the chin and pokes out one of the eyes. The eye
goes flying off into the distance as the bolt is

now jammed outside of the socket. The creature
turns, glancing your direction. It looks pretty

hurt, but it’s still standing.

SAM: Can I use the rest of my
action-movement-whatever bonus to look at the

patron I’m next to. Do they have any baubles or
jewelry on them?

TRAVIS: In this moment?

MATT: I’ll say you can use your bonus action to
just look. There’s nothing you can do this turn,

but next turn, you could. So make a perception
check.

SAM: Oh, it’s just nine.

MATT: Nine? It’s hard to look. You see this what
looks to be late-30s woman dressed in some sort of

general workers’ clothing with a loose apron, and
she’s just running and scrambling to get towards

the exit. You don’t see anything of worth on her,
unfortunately. Sorry. All right, Nott, that ends

your turn. Molly, you’re up.

TALIESIN: I’m still engaged with it, right? Okay,
I’m going to take two swipes.

MATT: Okay, so you spin around. You pull your
second scimitar out, as part of the strike, one of

them encased in ice crystals. So the first
strike– make sure you mark which one’s which.

TALIESIN: Purple’s the ice. That’s– the purple is
12 to hit?

MATT: 12 just barely hits.

TALIESIN: Ooh. So they both hit, so that’s good.
So that’s going to be– or all three, then, because

the other one is 21 to hit.

MATT: That hits, yeah.

TALIESIN: The first one is four points of damage.

MATT: Four points of damage?

TALIESIN: I’m sorry, the magic one is six points
plus three ice, so nine points.

MATT: Nine points of damage, all right.

TALIESIN: The other one is four points of damage.

MATT: Okay. So the first strike hits, and as the
scimitar carves through, the body snaps and opens,

and it snaps back into place, the torso locking
back in. The second strike does how much damage?

TALIESIN: Four points of damage.

MATT: Yeah. The second one hits again, and you
watch as the torso spins off. It looks like only the

spinal column is holding it in place, but it’s
managing to maintain its structure as it (snarls).

That ends your turn.

TALIESIN: Someone, anyone? Yep.

MATT: All right, ending Mollymauk’s turn, that
brings us to Beau.

LAURA: Beau, you got this.

MARISHA: In response to him, I say, I thought you
said you didn’t let in the sick!

TALIESIN: Just kill it!

MARISHA: I come up and I want to do a flying
Superman (impact).

MATT: Wham! Go for it.

MARISHA: First one. Okay. 16?

MATT: That’ll hit. Damage.

MARISHA: I had my staff– oh, I had my staff, but
I said–

LIAM: You said Superman punch, man.

MARISHA: It’s fine, it’s fine. Six damage.

MATT: Six points of damage. Natural 20. You watch
as you sock it in the face and the jaw breaks and

then snaps back into place. As you land, pulling
it back, you can see some of the teeth are

actually stuck in your fist as you pull back,
they’ve broken off into your knuckles.

MARISHA: I go, oh, come on. I’m going to use my
other ki point to do flurry of blows again, and

I’m going to try and punch him in the bridge with
the remainder of his teeth.

MATT: Her teeth, technically, this is the woman
that was killed originally.

MARISHA: Oh. I’ll be like, you were so pretty,
too.

MATT: Go for it. Two more strikes.

MARISHA: 19 and 18. Natural. And then, okay.

LAURA: That’s a really pretty dice.

MARISHA: Eight, 12, 13 damage.

MATT: Natural one, no. So the second punch, you
swing wide and hit the side of the head, and the neck

snaps, and it’s now stuck in a sideways position.
As it turns, the jaw, it pulls back one of its

weirdly swollen clawed hands, ready to go for that
open wound in your gut, and as it does,

how do you want to do this?

(cheering)

TRAVIS: First one!

SAM: First blood.

MARISHA: I’ll do the uppercut with the other one,
and the one that has its teeth in it, I want to go

right between the bridge of the nose and get the
teeth right in the eyes and break the nose bridge

into the brain. You know that thing? Yeah.

MATT: And as you do that, you slam into its face.
You watch as the skull caves in, the teeth

piercing both of the red, bulging eyes. And with
this horrible sucking, sighing sound, it falls

onto its back, no longer moving, the shadows
released.

MARISHA: I grab my gash and fucked-up ribs and
immediately turn over me. Can I do a perception

check or an insight check on any of the
ringleaders? On any of what was going on? The

ringleader or the jester?

MATT: That was your turn, unfortunately. That’s
your turn. At this point, the current threats are

down, and the crowd is screaming and rushing. The
two members of the Crown’s Guard are rushed to the

front, weapons ready, and they see both of these
creatures bloodied and ruined across the base of

this. In the midst of the chaos, one of them
points and goes, “You, you! Stay where you are!”

And you watch as the rest of the crowd slowly
pushes through, you see as Gustav

manages to make his way in. “Dear god, what’s
happened here?” Looks over toward Bo the Breaker,

the half-orc who’s now joined the rest of you.
“Sir, I don’t know how he got in here.” And

everyone looks around back at you. Bo looks at
you, Gustav looks to you, Molly. “What happened?”

TALIESIN: One of them turned. I don’t know what
happened.

LAURA: There was a sick guy! There was an old sick
guy and he turned into a zombie! And I run over

and I cast Cure Wounds on Beau.

MARISHA: Oh, thank you, man. I’m really down.

LAURA: Are you sick too? Did you get hurt? Hold on
two seconds. I’m going to cure her and then I’ll

cure you too.

TRAVIS: Yasha, have you ever seen anything like
this happen before?

ASHLEY: No. Never.

LAURA: Seven points, that’s all I could cure.

MARISHA: That’s amazing. That’s great.

TALIESIN: I’m going to drop my sword.

LAURA: Oh, that’s better for you, ten for you.

MATT: Okay. At this point, the two Crown’s Guard
that are there are trying desperately to maintain

control. You can see they’re visibly shaken, and
they glance at each other like they’re a little

out of their depths at the moment. “Stay where you
are. Don’t go anywhere.”

TALIESIN: Oh, wherever will I go.

MATT: And he turns to the one who’s in the front,
looks to the other one who just made his way

through, and goes, “Sivelmen, find someone. Bring
the rest of the guard. Please!” “Right now, sir.”

And he pushes his way towards the back as the rest
of the crowd runs out. Now everyone in the crowd

has mostly pushed out of the tent, the last few
dregs pushing through. Children crying, people of

Trostenwald just exiting out the flaps as they
close, and you’re all standing there, weapons in

your hands, wondering what to do.

TRAVIS: What are the corpses doing now that
they’ve fallen?

MATT: They’re both unmoving, ruined, torn apart.

LAURA: Can I search the corpse of the woman?

MATT: You can. As you go to move to it, both of
your forms merge. The Crown’s Guard goes like,

“Don’t move.”

LAURA: Which one?

MATT: “Both? Uh.” He looks genuinely confused.

LAURA: When I’m going “which one?” I make my
second form just dart forward and start searching

the body.

MATT: Okay. It mimics searching a body. It’s not
actually you. Begins rifling imaginary things out

of the pockets.

LAURA: Look at all the stuff that that one’s
finding over there!

(laughter)

LAURA: Can he turn and look and I try to search
the other guy?

MATT: Make a deception check to try and deceive
him to glance over.

LAURA: Not bad. 19?

MATT: (laughs) He goes, “What, over there?” Looks
over as you jump over quickly and begin searching

through it, and you guys watch her do this, and
there’s a clear line of sight. As soon as he turns

back, he’s going to notice her rifling through the
other corpse.

ASHLEY: Is Gustav still in here?

MATT: Gustav is now walking up, and he’s hands up
in the air. “I’m terribly sorry. I– this has

"never happened. I don’t know what happened. What
happened?!”

TALIESIN: We’ve never seen anything like it
before. He just– he gripped his heart and fell

over and turned into that thing.

ASHLEY: It was when Toya started singing.

MARISHA: Yeah, what’s with the dwarven girl?
Why–

TALIESIN: Nothing like this.

MATT: “She’s been singing with us for over two
years, now.”

MARISHA: How’d she come to you? She’s a pretty
young girl.

MATT: “She had no family and she was singing in
the street for change. There was an opportunity.

"We seized it. We gave her a family she didn’t
have.”

TRAVIS: Put your hands down.

MATT: The Crown’s Guard goes like (grunts). “It’s
fine, just don’t move.”

LAURA: Did I find anything?

MATT: Make an investigation check.

SAM: She uses a different dice for everything,
Travis?

LAURA: Shut up.

SAM: Is that what I’m dealing with now?

TRAVIS: You’re not even ready.

LAURA: 14?

MATT: You manage to rifle through the old man’s
body, through the stringy bits of gore, and you do

find three pieces of silver that are just coated
in blood. A few moments pass. The rest of the

people are gone, and it’s just this awkward quiet,
and at this point you watch as Ornna, the fire

fairy who had previously performed, walks in and
is like, “I’m sorry. What has happened here?”

LAURA: Your little dwarf girl was singing, and she
turns people into zombies.

TALIESIN: I feel that that was entirely
coincidental. I’m really not sure that the two

things were related. Something was wrong with this
man.

MARISHA: See, it’s interesting, because I would
say the opposite. I would say it wasn’t that

coincidental, because–

LIAM: I would agree, it seemed to happen with
this–

TALIESIN: We’ve seen her sing dozens, hundreds of
times. Nothing like this has ever happened. I’ve

seen people sit in the front row hundreds of
times. Nothing like this has ever happened.

LIAM: Have you had the elderly or the sick in
these tents before?

MARISHA: Yeah, you also happen to be very explicit
on your page that you don’t want the sick, so.

TALIESIN: Gustav.

MATT: At this motion, Gustav goes, “It’s generally
just because we want to promote a space of

"welcoming cleanliness. When we’re working amongst
the outskirts of the Empire, we don’t want to

"bring an element that reminds you of death and–”

SAM: You hate old people so much.

MATT: “Well, we’re in entertainment. We have to be
cautious.” The single Crown’s Guard guy who’s

sitting there with his weapon out, you can see him
shaking almost, he’s never had to deal with

anyting like this before.

TALIESIN: Hold up. I’ve never seen that one
before. He looks really suspicious.

MATT: Towards him?

TALIESIN: No, the guy behind him.

LAURA: (gasps) He does look suspicious.

MATT: Make a deception check.

TALIESIN: Sure. Eight.

MATT: He goes, “Don’t try that on me. I’ve been
doing this for over ten years.”

ASHLEY: Oh wait, look at him!

LAURA: I cast Thaumaturgy and make it sound like
there’s a sound coming from behind him, too.

MATT: Make a sleight-of-hand check to see if you
can cast this spell subtly enough or not.

SAM: This poor guard. Ooh!

(groaning)

LAURA: Natural one.

MATT: As you attempt to cast this spell, a little
bit of spittle gets caught in your windpipe, and

you begin to cough uncontrollably. Yeah, it just
falls away.

LAURA: (coughing) There was some popcorn that I
ate earlier.

TRAVIS: You should know that whatever happened to
that first man when he attacked the woman, she

caught whatever he had.

MATT: “And that is extremely worrying. Nobody
touch that body.” And he looks back and sees you

coughing over the corpse, and the guy’s like,
“Don’t you touch that body! Are you sick?”

LAURA: (coughing) I have bloody fingers.

MATT: “Someone hold her down. If she’s sick and
turns into one of these, I will not–”

ASHLEY: She’s fine. Just calm down.

TALIESIN: Well, we’ve already killed two of them.

SAM: She’s definitely sick.

MATT: Make a deception check.

LAURA: That was cocked, unfortunately. That was a
good one. Oh, well. 16?

MATT: 16? His face goes white and he goes, “Kill
the thing!” And rushes forward, blade held above.

ASHLEY: I take out my greatsword.

SAM: What, you’re going to kill a guard?

ASHLEY: Stop, stop.

MATT: He holds back. He turns to you and sees you
standing a full four inches taller than him with a

much larger blade, with one hand, and he goes,
“Look, if she’s going to become one of these

"things, we have to stop her now.”

LAURA: Yasha will totally kill me. Don’t worry,
you can leave.

MARISHA: Jester. Jokes are great until they get
you killed, man. She’s joking.

LAURA: (weak laughter)

SAM: Poor guard.

MATT: Immediately rubs his eyes. You can see him,
now that he’s closer to you, you can see he’s

sweating, he’s scared, he’s generally trying the
best he can to use whatever training he’s received

to deal with a scenario he was not trained for.

MARISHA: This is the King’s Guard guy?

MATT: One of the Crown’s Guard. The Crown’s Guard
are all generally hired and trained militia that

are sent amongst all the cities to keep the
peace.

MARISHA: What’s your name, man?

TALIESIN: Wow, he’s really shook up.

SAM: Jamieson.

MATT: “Flynn.”

MARISHA: Flynn. How long you been doing this, you
said ten years?

MATT: “Ten years two months ago.”

MARISHA: Oh. Happy ten year-i-versary. Yeah,
congrats. Did you get a nice watch or like a

commemorative tankard?

TRAVIS: They don’t have watches yet.

MARISHA: Shit. Did you get a commemorative
tankard? Forget the watch part.

MATT: “No. Don’t move.”

MARISHA: I’m not moving, man. Hey. Hey, Flynn.
Hey, man. How about first we put the swords down,

because we helped? Yeah.

SAM: Are any of us high charisma? 'Cause it don’t
seem like it.

MATT: At this point, the flaps at the front of the
tent, the entranceway, fold in and you watch as

one, two, three, four, six, ten Crown’s Guard
begin filtering into the chamber. You watch as one

man, the one who has his helmet off and under his
shoulder, he’s maybe in his early 40s or so, short

brown hair with patches of grey. Somewhat
jaundiced skin. Molly, you’ve encountered this man

once before when you entered the city. He
approaches Gustav right now with a commanding

voice. “I had a gut feeling that you were nothing
but trouble when you came into our town.” Gustav

turns around. “I guarantee to you, my friend, I
have no idea–” “What happened here?” The Crown’s

Guard who’s been shaken turns around and goes,
“Sir, Flynn. There was a creature. This carnival

"seemed to create some sort of terrible entity that
killed and then created a secondary beast. I

"watched it with my own eyes from the back row.”
And the man turns back towards Gustav and the rest

of you. “And who else saw that?”

TRAVIS: We did.

LAURA: Well, we saw an old guy turn into a zombie.
But it’s possible that he just died because he was

old, and then he had the zombie curse on him and
just turned, you know? Because that happens a lot.

TALIESIN: (deadpan) Gustav, it’s no use, we’ve
been found out. Our terrible plot to make a zombie

rampage through our carnival has been discovered.
Whatever will we do now that we’ve been discovered

for our brilliant plot to make a zombie ruin our
circus. My god.

MATT: Flynn turns to you and goes, “Put your
weapons down or we’ll arrest you immediately!”

TALIESIN: I’m literally holding nothing but my
hands.

LIAM: I mean, I’m sorry, but we’re basically a
group of strangers. Most of us don’t know each

other. We all have the same story. There was a
show, an old man became a thing, and we helped

destroy it. This one destroyed it. What more do
you want from us?

TALIESIN: It ruined our show.

MATT: Flynn turns back and says, “Watchmaster,
what should we do?” And the man with the helmet

under his arm walks forward, walks to Gustav,
gives him one look over, still a few inches

shorter than him. Looks at him with a sense of
purpose and social status that has a sense of

disinterest and disrespect. “You, sir, and your
orc, and your circus, are considered currently

"under arrest. Who else belongs to your merry
band?” He looks about the rest and Gustav goes,

“The orc.” Glances back at the two of you and
goes, “The rest of them are just purveyors of our

"performances. He was just joking earlier, right?”
Make a deception check.

SAM: Oh boy.

TALIESIN: Nope.

MATT: “And you are also under arrest. The rest of
you, what are your names?”

LAURA: Shirley.

SAM: Temple.

(muffled laughter)

LIAM: Caleb Widogast.

MARISHA: Beau, same as him.

TRAVIS: Bo.

(laughter)

SAM: I am Bo!

TRAVIS: You pointed at me.

MARISHA: I meant the NPC Bo! But it works!

ASHLEY: Here’s the thing. Oh, it’s Mary by the
way, but I think I know who might know what has

happened here.

MATT: “Do you? Tell me.”

ASHLEY: I’ll have to go get her.

MATT: “Who is this?”

ASHLEY: She is the singer that made this all
happen.

MATT: “Flynn, escort this woman to retrieve this
individual she speaks of.” Flynn nods and walks

over towards you.

LAURA: She’s really shy, though, and I hear she
only talks to tieflings, so you should probably send–

MATT: “Stay where you are.”

LAURA: –my brother along, because he’s really good
with that stuff.

TALIESIN: Try not to stab any random people on
your way there, Flynn. You’re doing good.

MATT: “My men tell me that the rest of you helped
destroy these fiends. Is that correct?”

ALL: Yeah.

MATT: “Then on behalf of the Starosta, I
appreciate your aid. But until this investigation

"is complete, you are all under investigation from
us. Where are you staying?”

TRAVIS: The Nestled Nook Inn.

SAM: Nested Nook.

MATT: Nestled. He got it right.

SAM: Oh, shit. One letter. God damn it.

TRAVIS: I have an intelligence of 14. I know what
I’m doing.

MATT: “Do not leave this city unless you are told
otherwise. Should you do so, I have your names,

"and I can have the full might of the Cerberus
Assembly track you down. You. Flynn. Free this

"girl.” While you all stand in the tent, Flynn
approaches you and walks a little bit behind you,

weapon drawn but at the side. Do you lead him out
of the tent? Okay. So you walk through the

performer’s flap, and as you walk out, you can see
backed up into the number of tents that are set

up, and some of the carts, other members of the
circus are hiding, and as soon as you exit out

the front and they see you before the Crown’s
Guard, they all immediately scatter and vanish to

the nearby shadows, out of sight. The two of you
walk out into the center, the fire crackling in a

small pit off to the side. “All right, where is
this girl you speak of?”

ASHLEY: She’s in the back in the tents.

MATT: “Show me.”

ASHLEY: Follow me.

MATT: He follows you. Which tent do you lead him
to? Over here? Okay, there’s a larger tent, as he

walks by your side, there’s the flap that’s
slightly open.

SAM: God, you could seduce him.

ASHLEY: Go get her. She won’t talk to me. She’s
too scared of me.

MATT: “All right.” Gets his weapon ready and walks
into the tent.

ASHLEY: I close the tent and I take off.

MATT: Okay. There’s a few moments before, in the
distance, you hear a voice say, “The tent is

"empty. What are you talking about? Hello?
Helloooo?”

(laughter)

MATT: And you don’t look back, and you just run
into the darkness of night, into the Marrow Fields

and disappear.

SAM: But that’s so mysterious.

LIAM: While that was happening, I’m close to the
edge of the tent, and at some point I just (snap)

and summoned Frumpkin. I have a 30-feet outside
the tent, so Frumpkin’s out there.

MATT: Okay. Frumpkin keeps watch. The Watchmaster,
as you heard him notified earlier, turns to the

rest of you. “So. The investigation will begin. If
any information comes to light that could

"alleviate you of the charges brought to this
carnival, come to me and let me know. If you have

"no answers before we complete this investigation,
then I believe you all will fall into the judgment.”

LAURA: Next time we don’t help. That’s what it
comes down to.

MARISHA: I know, we got paid the first time we
helped, and then we got arrested the second time.

I don’t know what lesson to learn here.

SAM: Just say okay and let’s leave.

LIAM: Yeah, yeah.

MATT: So the guards escort you out of the tent.
Molly, you’re stuck behind with Gustav and Bo the

Breaker, with a guard of five Crown’s Guards set
to keep watch. As the rest of you are sent to the

city, the Watchmaster turns once more and says,
“Remember, you flee, I’ll find you.”

And that’s where we’ll end tonight’s session.

SAM: No way! What? No! I want to keep playing.

TALIESIN: I’m so excited, this is great.

LIAM: It’s a good spot.

ASHLEY: We did it, we did it.

TRAVIS: Holy shit.

LAURA: We have to get Molly out!

SAM: (sighs) Everything’s better with Molly.

(laughter)

TALIESIN: Truer words were never spoken.

MATT: Well, guys, welcome to the new campaign.
Season two, I guess.

LIAM: Oh my goodness.

MARISHA: It feels so weird.

SAM: Look at these cool Wyrmwood cases that we
have!

MATT: Fucking Sam. I swear to god.

MARISHA: I used 100% new dice. No repeats from
Keyleth.

TRAVIS: Yeah, totally new dice.

TALIESIN: I kept the Gil die.

LAURA: I used some new dice.

TRAVIS: What are you talking about?

LAURA: Some new dice.

MATT: I used this beautiful little–

TALIESIN: Fuck you.

MATT: The Snitch is mine now.

LIAM: Look at all the 20s Taliesin rolled
tonight.

MATT: I know. Oh man. I’m excited.

SAM: Such cool characters, guys!

MATT: I’m excited to see where this goes.

SAM: I still don’t know what half of you guys are.
What’s Travis?